Portfolio for Semester

Week 2

During Week 2 we began the project by getting our groups and then having a discussion with our project mentor to get more details about the project. One of the tasks that I completed during this week was taking down an extensive set of notes during the discussion with our project manager. This included noting down important programs and progressions that we can undertake during our project that will lead us to our end goal of building a successful model. To help our communication and overall coordination of the project we have set up multiple group chats and avenues to contact each other and the group mentors/lecturers in case we need support during the project. This is over multiple platforms and all group members are in all the groups. We also set up the Github repository that we will use throughout the project and set up our individual branches that we will use once we start coding. As we have not received our data yet we have not developed any code or figures related to the project. I was able to do some initial research into some of the programs that we may use during the semester but I was unable to narrow it down to where to start moving forward.

Week 3 

Week 3 was really the start of the project. The main task this week from the group, mainly led by me, was to try and find a way to get all our data and make it accessible and usable. We encountered a few issues surrounding the data as it was so large and there were a few file corruptions that led to us spending a lot of the class and our time together figuring out ways to extract our data. This was also the main communication during the week as well as setting up the basis of the report and presentation. By having the outline of these set up early, we as a group can chip away slowly over the semester rather than having lots of work in separate places. We also decided on a group leader who would be in charge of commits to code and that was me which will be an exciting but challenging role across the semester. I was also able to give the weekly stand up which is something that I think I will continue to do more across the semester. As we still didn’t fully have our data there was minimal code that was completed but I completed some further research into Tensorflow and how it will work for our project and I believe it will be one of the most important things we work with throughout the semester.

Week 4

Week 4 was when we began to pivot from research and theory and attempt to begin the coding process which we know will be tough and span over most of the semester. I started by conducting some initial research into how we would be able to implement tensorflow and what requirements we would need. This research yielded the fact that all the images should be the same size when imported. This helps the model because it works off sizing and the pixels of the images so ensuring they are the same size is what makes the model work. Once we started working with the data we were able to do some initial analysis into some basic descriptive statistics. I was able to find that for both ETT and NGT catheters that they were placed normally 85.6% of the time. This figure decreased with only 64.7% of CVC catheters placed normally. These initial statistics will help give us a rough idea of what we can expect when we are building a model. I was also able to coordinate and deliver the weekly stand up. This was slightly difficult as I had to get everyone's contribution and some people doubled up on what was done which is poor leadership on my behalf.

Week 5

During Week 5 I was able to make some great progress with working with the photo portion of the data. One of the problems that has been encountered amongst the group and the other group who are doing the same project is the ability to load in and work with the photos attached to the project. Due to the large size of the project set, I have decided to start working with very smaller samples of the data. I have been able to load in 10-20 file folders into the code and I have committed this to the github so everyone is able to use that. I once again conducted a weekly meeting and progress update and we have been able to decide on what we are going to individually work on for the next few weeks. To help support the group, I have been active in our group chats and we have been discussing our best course of action going forward. This has led to the idea of working on multiple models for a good comparison and variety. My research into the tensorflow multilabel identifier model is very promising as the mapping over the images will be very useful for the project.

Week 6

Week 6 was a slower week for me for the project. Despite getting less done than I originally hoped I still believe I made a contribution and I have helped set up the code for the rest of the project to be a lot easier. I have found some tensorflow code that is going to be able to mean we can work with the images better. By using the tensorflow keras package, I was able to set some parameters for the image sizing before they are loaded in. Now the images are all loaded at the same size and initial modeling can be done using an image classification on tensorflow. That model is something I hoped to get working but I wasn't able to this week. I have not yet committed the code to load the images at the right size to the github but I will once I get my model working. My plan is to get this working over the next week or so as a starter model just classifying the images as either having one type of catheter or not. I again presented the weekly stand up and this involved coordinating the group again and trying to ensure that everyone was on task.

WEEK 6 REFLECTION

This project has proven to be a lot more difficult and complex than some of the other projects I have worked with previously. It has been a steep learning curve and it has been difficult at times working in the team. Due to the complexity of the project it has meant that we have had to do one task at a time which often leaves the whole team working on the same thing, but not together. As the project has gone on we have communicated a lot better and this has become less of a problem. I feel I have improved my leadership skills as I have taken on the role of team leader. This has been challenging and rewarding and it is something that I would love to take into future projects. My role in the project has been interesting, I know I'm not the most technically skilled coder so I have been trying to use my strength of research and ideas to influence the project and let some of the others use their coding strength. I will try and do more coding work on the back end of the project to ensure I have a diverse skill set going into the workforce and future projects.

Week 7

Week 7 was a busy week for me across all subjects including ADS. I have started to try and build an initial model for trying to identify catheters in the images. To start this I need to build some data frames containing the information for both the image and a binary classification of a certain catheter type. This has proved to be more challenging than I thought and I have spent the week putting together these dataframes. I have made 3 different frames for the 3 different catheters and have commited them to github for the group to use if they need. I was also able to ensure that the group met outside of class for the week to work on our practice presentation. I also did the weekly standup meeting for the group which is something that I am enjoying doing and is a nice challenge for me. I have also been working on putting together the presentation and that has involved doing some research into the project to ensure our knowledge of the applications is up to date and correct. Over the next week I will focus on preparing for the presentation as this will help for the end of year presentation as well.

Week 8 

The major focus of Week 8 was on the practice presentation in class. As a group I led a discussion about how if we put in lots of work now, our end of year presentation will basically be finsihed and only need minor revisions and updates as our code progresses. The whole group brought in to the ideologoy discussed above so the major focus was perfecting the presentation. Alongside this we also did some coding and with the help of some group members I was able to complete the data pre processing that will be used for modelling. I also set up my MASSIVE account which will be useful at the back end of the semester. I spent lots of time researching the best models and there implementation for image classification. This research along with some advice received from mentors meant I settled on attempting to use CNN for my modelling. Firstly I will be trying to implement a model with a smaller sample of 100 images to ensure that the code works before I move over to MASSIVE and run code with long run times.

Week 9

During Week 9 I had a midsemester assessment for 2 of my other subjects and one of them was at the same time as my ADS class so I had to miss most of class this week. To make up for this, I spoke to my group members about what went on in class. We decided to split into smaller groups and focus on the areas that they each agreed to do. Everyone in the group seems to be contributing an even amount and it
has been good working as a team. In my smaller sub group it has been nice working closely with another group member on the introduction and some background research for the final report. I also started some basic models but they are returning low accuracy scores compared to what I was hoping to achieve. This can be acceredited to a few things but most importantly I found my sample was really poorly balanced and my model had been overtrained so I know that over and under sampling is something that I should look into over the break so I am able to hit the ground runnning when we get back.

Week 10

Week 10 was mostly spent on running and training models on MASSIVE. This was overall a time consuming and tedious process with each model taking upwards of 30 minutes to train and loading in the data took just as long. This meant a lot of time this week was spent watching the modelling results and doing other research and perfecting of the final presentation whilst the models ran. I was able to commit my models to github which was one of the first steps of our overall modelling process. The group kept in touch alot during the week with many of us running models and comparing results and training methods to find what was the best way to go. One of the main things I researched was sampling and mainly trying to utilise SMOTE when training the data. After attempting some SMOTE, it was found to be extremely uneffective due to the large size of the synthetic data that was created from the SMOTE. I also found that after sampling the model was extremely undertrained and had a large bias against the most common label in larger groups of data that I was training on. This is something that I will need to work on further in the next week.

Week 11

This week I worked on finalizing the models whilst also continuing to work on presentation and where possible, the report. Toward the back end of the week my attention shifted fully to the presentation and trying to prepare that as best as possible. I was able to put together the slides in the presentation that I would be speaking too. I was also able to help the others format the presentation to something that is aesthetically pleasing and easy to follow for the audience. I tried more over and under sampling and was able to work out that no sampling gave the best and most even results for my model. I was able to organise a meeting with my group and we discussed finishing off our modelling so we can finalise our results and finish up the presentation. My main goal for the coming week is to really focus on my part of the presentation and work on my public speaking skills. I practiced throughout the week and really tried to not use any cue cards which will be what I do when I am doing the actual presentation

Week 12

During the start of Week 12, as a group we were able to get in multiple practice runs of our presentation. It was really positive as we were able to critique each other and give suggestions as if we were looking from an outsider's point of view. The presenation was a main focus and once that was finsihed we shifted to finishing off the report. The main thing that we took away from the presentation was the feedback surrounding what we needed to include in our report to make it as good as possible. This meant we had to alter our structure slightly and add more detail in certain places but taking feedback and using it is something that we wanted to focus on as a group. The final part of the week was spent working on the modelling results and adding them to the report. This came with doing some research so I was able to properly interpret the results. As this is the last week of the project, I just finalised my code and commited it to the github and there is nothing to do for next week.

WEEK 12 REFLECTION

The complexity of the project was something that I had never eperienced before and it made for some long days and tedious experiences working with big sets of data. There were lots of challnegs around accessing MASSIVE and having a working data set that through speaking to teachers, group members and other classmates that I were able to work through. I learnt that in a group you are not always going to have everyone pulling even weight and sometimes it may feel like only half the team is working. In the end the entire group pulled through and contributed across the board which was nice to experience as a group member. I could have improved as a group leader with both better delegation of workload and also ensuring myself and the group stayed more on time. In future projects I would have put in a lot more early work if I new how much time at the back end of the semester would be spent waiting for code to run. My coding definetly improved throughout the project and this is a skill that I am very glad to have and will be extremely helpful for future projects and work oppurtunities.
